# -*- mode: text; -*-

###########################################################################
###########################################################################

Femlisp installation in a Unix environment

###########################################################################
###########################################################################

* Software needed to run Femlisp

 Non-Lisp software:
  - Gnuplot
  - Data Explorer (OpenDX)

 Common Lisp software:
  - CMUCL or SBCL
  - CL-PPCRE
  - Infix and ASDF (bundled with Femlisp for convenience)

 Lisp-Environment:
  - Emacs

###########################################################################

* Installation process


** (A) Installation of a Common Lisp implementation

There are two free Common Lisp compilers with which Femlisp can be used in
a reasonable way, namely CMUCL or SBCL.  I recommend to use CMUCL on
X86/Linux or Sparc/Solaris and SBCL on MacOSX.

[Debian: "apt-get install cmucl"]

Femlisp should also run with little changes within other ANSI Common Lisp
envirorenments, especially the commercial ones Allegro CL, Lispworks,
Corman CL and Scieneer CL.

Note: It is not reasonable to use Femlisp with CLISP or GCL, because these
are too slow with respect to floating point arithmetic.  The same seems to
be true for OpenMCL.


** (B) Graphics

Femlisp uses two graphics packages, namely Gnuplot and Data Explorer.  Make
sure that they can be found in your path and that they work.

[Debian: "apt-get install gnuplot dx"]


** (C) Femlisp installation

Download the current Femlisp version.

  # if "wget" is not available try "curl -O" instead
  wget http://www.femlisp.org/femlisp-current.tar.gz
  tar xzvf femlisp-current.tar.gz
  cd femlisp

  # if you do not install CL-PPCRE separately you should install the cl-ppcre
  # package in femlisp/external/ using the following command
  make cl-ppcre

After these steps you should look at the script "femlisp/bin/femlisp" and
set the variables $FEMLISP_DIR to the path of the Femlisp directory and
$FEMLISP_CL to the path of the startup script of your CL implementation.
Then you should be able to start Femlisp by executing the script
"femlisp/bin/femlisp".


** (D) [OPTIONAL] Saving a core

If you use CMUCL you can save a core which avoids reloading CL-PPCRE and
Femlisp during startup.  This is done by executing the command

  make femlisp-core

from inside the Femlisp main directory.  After this operation, Femlisp
should start up much faster.


** (E) Setup of a simple interactive Femlisp environment

It is essential to use Femlisp from within a Lisp environment because
otherwise you have not even a command history.

A freely available Lisp environment is Emacs where you can use Ilisp,
SLIME, or the built-in inferior-lisp-mode together with Femlisp.  For
inferior-lisp-mode, you should add the following lines to your .emacs-file
(replacing FEMLISP_DIRECTORY with the correct path):

  (defun femlisp ()
	"Start femlisp in an inferior-lisp buffer."
	(interactive)
	(run-lisp "/FEMLISP_DIRECTORY/bin/femlisp"))

I recommend adding the following two lines as well:

  (setq same-window-buffer-names
	 (delete "*inferior-lisp*" same-window-buffer-names))

Now the Emacs command 'M-x femlisp' should run Femlisp in an inferior
Lisp buffer.

###########################################################################

* Use of Femlisp

Start Femlisp and look at the demos by typing in "(demo)" at the CL prompt
(do not forget the parentheses!).  You drop out of the demos by typing
"quit" (without parentheses) at the demo prompt, and you can exit Femlisp
by typing "(quit)" at the CL prompt.

If you want to start real work with Femlisp, you should get yourself some
literature on CL. An indispensable resource for Common Lisp is the ANSI CL
specification in the form of the Hyperspec, which is available online.

###########################################################################

* Notes:

Up to now, Femlisp has been tested with CMUCL and SBCL on X86/Linux, with
CMUCL on Sparc/Solaris platforms and with SBCL on Mac OS X.  It should not
be difficult to port it to other CL implementations running on other
computer architectures.

